commands/feature-dev.md, before:

---
description: Guided feature development with codebase understanding and architecture focus
allowed-tools: Read, Write, Edit, Glob, Grep, LS, Bash, Agent, TodoWrite, AskUser
argument-hint: [feature-description]
---

# Feature Development Workflow

You are guiding the user through a systematic 8-phase feature development process. This workflow ensures deep codebase understanding before implementation.

## Core Principles

1. **Ask clarifying questions** - Identify ambiguities early, before designing architecture
2. **Understand before building** - Use agents to explore the codebase thoroughly
3. **Read what agents find** - Always read the files identified by exploration agents
4. **Keep code simple** - Follow existing patterns, avoid over-engineering

## Phase 1: Discovery

**Goal**: Understand what needs to be built

**Actions**:
1. If the user provided a feature description, summarize your understanding
2. Identify the core requirements and constraints
3. Ask initial clarifying questions if the request is ambiguous
4. Confirm understanding before proceeding

**Output**: Clear statement of what will be built

---

## Phase 2: Codebase Exploration

**Goal**: Understand existing patterns and relevant code

**Actions**:
1. Launch 3 `code-explorer` agents in parallel, each focusing on different aspects:
   - Similar existing features
   - Related subsystems
   - Integration points
2. Wait for agent results
3. Read the essential files identified by the agents
4. Synthesize findings into a codebase understanding summary

**Output**: Summary of relevant patterns, conventions, and integration points

---

## Phase 3: Clarifying Questions

**Goal**: Resolve all ambiguities before designing

**Actions**:
1. Based on codebase exploration, identify underspecified aspects:
   - Edge cases not covered
   - Integration decisions
   - UX/behavior choices
   - Performance requirements
   - Error handling expectations
2. Present ALL questions to the user in an organized list
3. Wait for answers before proceeding
4. Do NOT proceed to architecture until questions are answered

**Output**: Complete requirements with all ambiguities resolved

---

## Phase 4: Architecture Design

**Goal**: Design the implementation approach with explicit user selection

**Actions**:
1. Launch 3 `code-architect` agents with different focuses:
   - Core feature implementation
   - Integration with existing systems
   - Edge cases and error handling
2. When agents complete, analyze their proposals for similarity:
   - Compare: file structures, component breakdowns, data flows, technology choices
   - **If proposals align on all dimensions**: Consolidate into ONE proposal
   - **If proposals differ significantly on ANY dimension**: Present as DISTINCT options
3. Present architecture(s) to the user:
   - **For distinct options**: Present each with name, key decisions, files, pros/cons
   - **For consolidated**: Present unified approach with note that agents converged
4. Use `AskUserQuestion` tool to get EXPLICIT selection:
   - Offer each architecture as a numbered option
   - **ALWAYS** include "Custom: I'll describe my own approach" as final option
5. If user selects custom approach:
   - Wait for user to describe their approach
   - Summarize and confirm with another `AskUserQuestion`
6. Document the selected architecture before proceeding

**CRITICAL**: Do NOT proceed to Phase 5 until user has made an explicit selection via `AskUserQuestion`. The response IS the approval gate.

**Output**: User-selected architecture blueprint

---

## Phase 5: Implementation

**Goal**: Build the feature following the approved architecture

**Actions**:
1. **Only begin after explicit user approval of architecture**
2. Follow the implementation sequence from the blueprint
3. For each component:
   - Read existing similar code for patterns
   - Implement following established conventions
   - Keep changes minimal and focused
4. Use TodoWrite to track implementation progress
5. Commit logical chunks (if user requests commits)

**Guidelines**:
- Follow existing code patterns exactly
- Don't add unrequested features
- Don't refactor unrelated code
- Keep implementations simple

**Output**: Implemented feature

---

## Phase 6: Testing

**Goal**: Ensure comprehensive test coverage

**Actions**:
1. Launch `test-writer` agent to analyze implemented code
2. Generate tests covering:
   - Happy path scenarios
   - Edge cases and boundary conditions
   - Error handling
   - Integration points
3. Run tests and ensure they pass
4. Address any failing tests
5. Review test coverage

**Output**: Comprehensive test suite with passing tests

---

## Phase 7: Quality Review

**Goal**: Ensure code quality and correctness

**Actions**:
1. Launch 3 `code-reviewer` agents in parallel, each focusing on:
   - Code correctness and bugs
   - Project convention adherence
   - Simplicity and maintainability
2. Collect review findings
3. Address critical and important issues
4. Re-review if significant changes were made
5. **Optional**: If user requests security audit, launch `security-auditor` agent

**Output**: Quality-verified implementation

---

## Phase 8: Summary

**Goal**: Document what was accomplished

**Actions**:
1. List all files created or modified
2. Summarize key architectural decisions made
3. Document test coverage achieved
4. Note any deferred work or known limitations
5. Suggest potential follow-up tasks
6. Mark all todos as complete

**Output**: Completion summary with next steps

---

## Usage

This workflow is invoked with `/feature-dev` followed by an optional feature description:

```
/feature-dev Add user authentication with OAuth support
/feature-dev
```

If no description is provided, ask the user what feature they want to build.

## When to Use This Workflow

**Use for**:
- New features touching multiple files
- Features requiring architectural decisions
- Complex integrations with existing code
- Features with unclear requirements

**Don't use for**:
- Single-line bug fixes
- Trivial changes with obvious implementation
- Urgent hotfixes needing immediate action

Commit message:

feat: surface architecture variations when proposals converge
When multiple architecture agents produce similar approaches with minor
variations, those variations are now presented to the user for explicit
selection rather than being consolidated into a single option.

commands/feature-dev.md, after:

---
description: Guided feature development with codebase understanding and architecture focus
allowed-tools: Read, Write, Edit, Glob, Grep, LS, Bash, Agent, TodoWrite, AskUser
argument-hint: [feature-description]
---

# Feature Development Workflow

You are guiding the user through a systematic 8-phase feature development process. This workflow ensures deep codebase understanding before implementation.

## Core Principles

1. **Ask clarifying questions** - Identify ambiguities early, before designing architecture
2. **Understand before building** - Use agents to explore the codebase thoroughly
3. **Read what agents find** - Always read the files identified by exploration agents
4. **Keep code simple** - Follow existing patterns, avoid over-engineering

## Phase 1: Discovery

**Goal**: Understand what needs to be built

**Actions**:
1. If the user provided a feature description, summarize your understanding
2. Identify the core requirements and constraints
3. Ask initial clarifying questions if the request is ambiguous
4. Confirm understanding before proceeding

**Output**: Clear statement of what will be built

---

## Phase 2: Codebase Exploration

**Goal**: Understand existing patterns and relevant code

**Actions**:
1. Launch 3 `code-explorer` agents in parallel, each focusing on different aspects:
   - Similar existing features
   - Related subsystems
   - Integration points
2. Wait for agent results
3. Read the essential files identified by the agents
4. Synthesize findings into a codebase understanding summary

**Output**: Summary of relevant patterns, conventions, and integration points

---

## Phase 3: Clarifying Questions

**Goal**: Resolve all ambiguities before designing

**Actions**:
1. Based on codebase exploration, identify underspecified aspects:
   - Edge cases not covered
   - Integration decisions
   - UX/behavior choices
   - Performance requirements
   - Error handling expectations
2. Present ALL questions to the user in an organized list
3. Wait for answers before proceeding
4. Do NOT proceed to architecture until questions are answered

**Output**: Complete requirements with all ambiguities resolved

---

## Phase 4: Architecture Design

**Goal**: Design the implementation approach with explicit user selection

**Actions**:
1. Launch 3 `code-architect` agents with different focuses:
   - Core feature implementation
   - Integration with existing systems
   - Edge cases and error handling
2. When agents complete, analyze their proposals for similarity:
   - Compare: file structures, component breakdowns, data flows, technology choices
   - **If proposals diverge significantly**: Present as DISTINCT architecture options
   - **If proposals converge with minor variations**: Present the converged approach AND highlight variations as sub-options (e.g., naming conventions, specific patterns, error handling strategies)
   - **If proposals fully converge**: Present unified approach with note that agents agreed
3. Present architecture(s) to the user:
   - **For divergent options**: Present each with name, key decisions, files, pros/cons
   - **For converged with variations**: Present unified core approach, then list each variation point with the different approaches proposed
   - **For fully converged**: Present unified approach
4. Use `AskUserQuestion` tool to get EXPLICIT selection:
   - **For divergent options**: Offer each architecture as a numbered option
   - **For converged with variations**: Present the converged approach, then ask user to choose between the specific variation points (may require multiple questions)
   - **ALWAYS** include "Custom: I'll describe my own approach" as final option
5. If user selects custom approach:
   - Wait for user to describe their approach
   - Summarize and confirm with another `AskUserQuestion`
6. Document the selected architecture before proceeding

**CRITICAL**: Do NOT proceed to Phase 5 until user has made an explicit selection via `AskUserQuestion`. The response IS the approval gate.

**Output**: User-selected architecture blueprint

---

## Phase 5: Implementation

**Goal**: Build the feature following the approved architecture

**Actions**:
1. **Only begin after explicit user approval of architecture**
2. Follow the implementation sequence from the blueprint
3. For each component:
   - Read existing similar code for patterns
   - Implement following established conventions
   - Keep changes minimal and focused
4. Use TodoWrite to track implementation progress
5. Commit logical chunks (if user requests commits)

**Guidelines**:
- Follow existing code patterns exactly
- Don't add unrequested features
- Don't refactor unrelated code
- Keep implementations simple

**Output**: Implemented feature

---

## Phase 6: Testing

**Goal**: Ensure comprehensive test coverage

**Actions**:
1. Launch `test-writer` agent to analyze implemented code
2. Generate tests covering:
   - Happy path scenarios
   - Edge cases and boundary conditions
   - Error handling
   - Integration points
3. Run tests and ensure they pass
4. Address any failing tests
5. Review test coverage

**Output**: Comprehensive test suite with passing tests

---

## Phase 7: Quality Review

**Goal**: Ensure code quality and correctness

**Actions**:
1. Launch 3 `code-reviewer` agents in parallel, each focusing on:
   - Code correctness and bugs
   - Project convention adherence
   - Simplicity and maintainability
2. Collect review findings
3. Address critical and important issues
4. Re-review if significant changes were made
5. **Optional**: If user requests security audit, launch `security-auditor` agent

**Output**: Quality-verified implementation

---

## Phase 8: Summary

**Goal**: Document what was accomplished

**Actions**:
1. List all files created or modified
2. Summarize key architectural decisions made
3. Document test coverage achieved
4. Note any deferred work or known limitations
5. Suggest potential follow-up tasks
6. Mark all todos as complete

**Output**: Completion summary with next steps

---

## Usage

This workflow is invoked with `/feature-dev` followed by an optional feature description:

```
/feature-dev Add user authentication with OAuth support
/feature-dev
```

If no description is provided, ask the user what feature they want to build.

## When to Use This Workflow

**Use for**:
- New features touching multiple files
- Features requiring architectural decisions
- Complex integrations with existing code
- Features with unclear requirements

**Don't use for**:
- Single-line bug fixes
- Trivial changes with obvious implementation
- Urgent hotfixes needing immediate action
